# ProgressAcademy
Remote coding exercise: Student Ranking

To start the process, I looked at the brief and the requirements needed for the system to function properly. From the start, I decided to break down the process into multiple small problems and program seperate procedures or def statements in python for each small problem, resulting in a system that was a collection of smaller def statements that carried out key functionalities. The key functions I could see at first where that both task 1 and task 2 required a class for their calculations and they both required user input. From this, I decided to create a class that would carry out the key calculations needed that were best represented by the formulas given in both task 1 and task 2. From the start, I decided to use useful identifiers for variables, allowing anyone to read the code and understand what was going on. As well as useful identifiers, I decided to take the decision to comment my code, so that if another programmer were to look at it, they would understand what certain functions were doing and what each piece's purpose was. 

My first decision was to create classes that carried out the calculations and then build from this. After coding two classes, one for average score and one for progress score, I decided to then introduce user input. Looking at the brief for task 1, I seen that the user needed to input scores for Maths, English and Science. For this, I created three input prompts that would take in these scores and pass them into the Average Score class for calculations. Looking at the at the brief for task 2, I seen that the user needed to input mock and actual scores for Maths, English and Science. For this, I created six input prompts that would take in these scores and then pass them into the Progress Score class for calculations. 

After creating the classes for the calculations and creating the user input, I decided I needed to introduce error handling methods and validation. For example, all the menus had validation ensuring that if invalid data was entered then it would loop back to the start. Another piece of validation I decided to introduce was the validation that input could be no larger than 100. I added this validation to accomodate for the brief's mention of tests being marked out of 100. These pieces of validation ensured only valid data could be entered and that if invalid data was entered, the system could handle it appropriately. 

After completing the classes, input and validation, I noticed that certain inputs were producing results that had more than two decimal places. From this I decided to round any output to two decimal places ensuring all data was accurately represented. 

Throughout the entire process of development, I was using both the test data of James Smith and many other students as represented by the screenshots in this repository. This helped me to notice any bugs that were occurring and add validation that would prevent them from occurring again. For example, Student 3133 when left unrounded would produce an output of 0.66666666', I noticed this and this led to the aforementioned decision to round output to two decimal places.

One more decision I decided to make was to add a lookup function. I thought this would be useful considering the large number of test data that was available. I created a text file that contained all the test data and allowed the user to enter a student's number and find their scores. This feature could be further developed in the future to allow the user to add a new student's details to the database. 

All these decisions led to my compiled system that had three essential features: A class that works out the average score, a class that works out the progress score and a function that looks up a certain student's details. The system is user-friendly and prevents the user from crashing the system through invalid input. 
